so that creative life are you living
within that creative life I'm living
hashtags actuated life it was that
creative life is back me and you never
know what you're going to get from these
videos because I'm going to be changing
it up but today I have two interviews
from some very smart talented people I
think I have a little bit of creative
know-how when it comes to videos or
YouTube but I am very fascinated by the
design world and the opinions and
expertise of illustrators and all of
those types of people stuff Roberta
Blake
Debbie Millman those are the two people
that I have ten day so today's video is
from designers perspectives on how to
get discovered how to use the interweb
to brand yourself to sell whatever
you're trying to sell roberto blake he
is much more than a designer so he
started out in graphic design but now he
is a youtuber that posts also every
single day and you also excreted like
your in speaker that dude does it all
and Debbie Millman she's kind of a
legend in the design community to hold
on I I had to write what she does and
what she's done I'm sticking up I can't
can't remember everything
Debbie Millman a well-known designer
educator and writer she hosts the very
popular podcast design matters written
six books cofounders with Stephen Heller
of the world's first graduate program
and branding at the School of Visual
Arts in New York City which resident of
the design division of Stirling branch
president emeritus of a IGA
editorial and creative director at print
magazine important number of the joyful
part foundation
[Music]
yeah not only are you an hello shirt
designer but you are a master at
branding so it can great branding sell a
crappy product better than like vice
versa or it's a good product but it has
bad branding I'll start off by saying
and this is a quote somebody out there
must love peach flavored powdered iced
tea no the reason I'm saying that is
because just the description alone peach
flavored powdered I'm state says it
sounds good right now companies don't
arbitrarily put products on shelves and
keep them in a Fanta so if something is
crappy
it might get some good trial if it has
been grading people might be interested
in trying it because it heard about it
or substances you can advertising or
greet your logo or beautiful new bottle
but if it isn't good if it doesn't
deliver on the expectation of that
comment then you no one is going to buy
an account and so the reason I say that
somebody out there must really love
peach flavored paradise be focused on
the market and it's been on the market
for a really long time
and despite any kind of gruesome itself
so companies corporations aren't
altruistic they only will put things on
shelves because they pay to put things
on shelves as well and so no matter the
brand and whether it be good branding or
bad branding good writing might get
somebody to be interested but they're
never ever going to keep buying
something because it's good branding if
it doesn't deliver
and so while something might have bad
it's been in the market for a long time
as transportation between two people
over the door people will buy to speak
the fact that it has been branded either
by renting as deliberate differentiation
this is an intentional way of creating a
difference between this thing and that's
it it has done well it will capture
people's attention if it's done poorly
it still might capture people's
attention but it won't have not yet
being good branding so it might give you
the initial attention but a good product
a good service is what is going to make
people stay the same is true for
entertainment the same is true for
content creators you can get that
initial attention how do you make the
people stay you make quality quality
stuff a lot of people they are maybe
into food they are into a certain hobby
and they want to start a blog and maybe
not a YouTube channel so maybe a picture
based website or text blogs and stuff
and what is your opinion maybe what are
some best platforms to get into and to
build and cue because I am a big
believer that if you are starting from
scratch you should not go and just buy a
website name and expect people to haul
themselves over to Sarah Gigi comment
like type that in every day so what's
kind of your view what's the best
platform of starting on what should
people do be do it the way you guys
think about it is how do I find one
piece of paper in a folder and a filing
cabinet for folders in a roomful of
filing cabinets it comes out you got a
label stuff and then beyond that you
know it'd be a lot easier just like it
says having someone hunt for something
go to where they are and hand them the
thing that they want Briella so that
really matters that's why like that's
why social media matters but the other
thing with a website and businesses get
this wrong all the time actually consult
clients and I came from the world of web
design and blogging way before YouTube
anyway that was what my actual gig was
in the corporate world and so my
that you you can't just sit there and
expect oh it it and they will come that
students like no they have to have a
reason so I would say number one
probably go to like places that already
have some attention medium calm is all
right built into Twitter it has search
and share capability and medium is
beautiful so it looks for it's not a
smartphone and you get such high res
pictures yeah I have to just do it from
my phone it's yeah though syphilis right
so it's easy on you it's easy to create
there it's easy to share as easy for the
person to read and for them to share it
and to interact that's the other thing
it's like you want other people sharing
yourself make it easy on them your own
website is not always on easy I have to
mention the time savings okay like I
definitely believe that on some level
anyone's got to get into this stuff
should have their own website and there
are certain features with like YouTube
that you get to unlock with your own
website right but how do you get people
there you can't just expect people to go
there on their own or to find it that
never reason so you have to you know
when you're doing stuff like on your
media on your Twitter on your whatever
you have to have a reason for them to
actually come back to where your home is
to your core but you have to meet them
where they are you have to go out to the
bar you have to go out to the club you
have to take them dancing and then maybe
the one is it yes and having this social
interactions built-in already it's so
good as well because people are used to
liking and and doing those things to
blog post and so what I noticed I
actually did a lot of blogging on very
beachy calm and it was such a pain to
get people over to the website you know
because you have to do such an extra
push so inconvenient for people to go
out of their way to type in your name
into a browser and so if you already
have something built into something like
medium into something really it's like
tumblr is a good is still a viable
option because you can do a lot of stuff
with hash tagging things collaborating
with people it's so helpful to go where
the people already are I will open up my
medium up and just scroll I will search
new topics I will discover a lot of new
people that way so you free with a
massive just right a little bit just
drop some names some like big brands a
new brand is my dress for my Star Wars
Star Wars oftentimes my biggest
challenges come with uploading
consistently to YouTube while juggling
bigger projects on the side whether that
is filming or editing for longer form
stuff that might end up on YouTube
eventually or other platforms so that's
always the things that I'm battling with
but when you are heading out a team
designing Star Wars merchandise holy cow
I can only imagine the obstacles and
problems that you have to tackle when
you're dealing with a project that size
and you kind of have something that you
do whether it's with yourself or with
your team that is a strategy or just
something that you do that help you look
at you epic huge problems and helps
break it down into like actual
executable tasks
I don't really have an answer other than
to take every problem
and if you look at any problem there's a
need for some change right that specific
need for change if you start to compare
it to other problems then you're not
focusing on the problem that you have
change so there really is no big problem
versus a small problem to fix your
problem so all that's good yeah it's
just a problem that you need to solve
just in some way and you know here I'm
going to quote bright Hans because he
says that designers people say in the
world that designers are problem solvers
he counters that amuses designer
shipping problems makers because we are
the ones that are able to create better
situation so that we should go out and
see so and opposed to wait for them to
come to us but get back to your original
question I don't think you should ever
compare one problem to another problem
and this could be whether it's something
in your life or a project or situation
because there is something that's
impacting you somebody else community
the world it all has to be taken with
the same learning and seriousness
otherwise you run the risk of either
taking for granted I'm not staying long
vacation and even the smallest so to
speak quote unquote problem could have
huge huge impact anywhere everywhere in
terms of YouTube specifically now how
can people I talk about kind of vlogging
or searchable content so when I say
search will hunt us maybe reviews of
gear or something around what you're
passionate about or maybe something
super topical that's happening in the
world there's so many things that you
can do with SEO to optimize that so I'm
talking about title the description of
your video the tags of your video so how
do you utilize that to get your videos
so that's a great question I talked
about this I needed a step-by-step
tutorial on it and part of it is you
have to understand what people are going
to search for the thing is like they'll
type in like one word like let's say you
were doing a video both lifted videos
about the Sony rx100 okay you know what
we didn't use as a keyword we probably
didn't use Sony it's too generic right
that could be anything that we end Sony
commerce so what we typed in was for a
search term in our tag we had Sony rx100
Sony rx100 reviews Sony rx100 test
footage 20 rx100 vlogging camera like
Mark 5 blogging camera whatever right so
that is the tags it's also in the first
three lines of the description and also
somehow in the title but then it's like
all the tiles are saying how do you make
it unique well like for my footage thing
I did a New York City shot on the Sony
rx100 mark 5 I got the idea from your
iPhone 7s - now yeah so like that you
know it was a really good strategy
people do not understand how valuable
the description so if you are just like
copying and pasting your social media
handles and then like in a balcony in
your description you're doing it wrong
we need to put some things in there
they're unique to that video it's like
leaving your content for dick it's like
you're not getting it any legs to stand
on you're not helping it you need to
have a really definitive content
strategy and it really has three legs
just like a tripod you need stuff that's
very community driven like your stuff
that you do that straight-up teaches
Amazon support no matter what's going to
get
to use no matter what you need content
like that you need searchable content
that can bring in new people have no
idea that can fall in love with you and
then you need content that is a calling
card you need your big hero content
that's going to move the needle on the
things that matter to you the most in
your life or in your career and for you
that's things like creative spaces TV
and that creative life those are your
films those are your big calling cards
those are the big business things some
sponsor club I understand your brain
going whether you're trying to sell your
skills to the world or to a company or
maybe trying to sell a product or
service let me know if you like this
video and hit that subscribe button down
below to view every Monday through
Friday go check out Roberto's youtube
channel and also check out Debbie's
podcast design matters it is so good all
those links will be in the description
below until next time stay peachy okay
bye
[Music]